So Sean, is it OK to start?
Yeah, I don't see any questions.
Nice. So, let's start and again like the previous session in order
to just make sure that everyone
has a focus or attention to the
lecture, please send me some
feedbacks. I mean, any emoji
icons or any happy something
like that in the chat box.
Or any feedback, so you can send feedbacks like this. Just
clicking on your icon here and then send happy, surprise, or fast
or something like that.
Nice, I am receiving some
so.
Some other students are not that
happy in the morning.
Yes, I do feel. I mean
I totally understand in
the morning classes.
Cool, actually I'll start and I hope all
the other feels great after
just some minutes.
So.
Again, that's back to our first
discussion. In the previous
session before. Before that any
question regarding the previous
session or lecture, please put
it in the chat box and then I
will answer it. I mean, whenever
we have the time for Q&A.
So. Again, I put this colorful
image in the from this space I
took by the Hubble Space
Telescope. This is just a small
portion of the space and just to
show you that. Uh, since?
Human individuals, I mean, was
able to see the stars.
They started to form some
problems. One of the basic ones
are those that they just wanted
to travel to the stars or just.
They just wanted to explore the
universe. So the first step to
do that is just.
How can we measure the distance
of our own earth to the stars?
Or how can we measure the
height? Or how can we measure
the lengths so these are just
very basic problems, but it's
still essential problems?
Ah, let's start with the most
basic one. Measuring the
distance an imagine you are
living in those old days.
And we want to measure the
distance, for instance from
Earth to Sun or moon to the
earth or moon to the sun. These
are just very basic questions
pop up to the mind of the people
living in those old days.
So how can we do that? How
can we measure for instance,
and this is like the moon's
distance to the sun.
Anybody has an idea?
And remember, those people in
doesn't have any sophisticated.
I mean math formulations or any sophisticated tools to
measure. I mean this long
distance is so the most naive
version of the solution to the
problem was that let's take
another object or another store
as a unit and then.
Count the distance based on the number of that object.
Uh, for instance, in order to
calculate the measure of the
moon to the sun, we can take the Earth as the unit and
then we can.
Transfer or translate. The
distance of moon to the sun
based on the number of Earth you
have to take to reach the sun
from the moon.
So this was the most naive
version. So the problem actually
reduced to this. How many Earth
we need to pass.
So at first we put just one
errors and then secondary. So
it means that we have to pass
twice the earth diameter and
then 3, four and five. So the five is actually is kind of, I
mean with a little bit error.
But we can have a compromise
and we can say that the most
distance to Sun based on this
image is a bad five earth.
Ah, you may say that this is
very trivial and this is not
that important. But the thing is, the most basic but
important step is done by the
people in the old days they
breakdown a continuous quantity
or a continuous entity which for
instance the distance.
To a discrete quantities or
discrete units of Earth. This is
the very basic but very
important step in analyzing or
processing any type of
information. So we have to
breakdown the continuous
quantities into discrete units
of another. I mean discrete
units. So.
This is the birth to the systems
called discrete system. All the
digital systems or computer
systems, or any insistent that
process the information have to
breakdown the continuous entity
or quantity to discrete units.
So a computer system is just a
member of this category,
discrete system. Just to make
sure that you have a good
understanding of what are the
continuous entities or
quantities and what are the
discrete quantities, I make a
poll here. So I posted the link to the poll.
Let me. And then you can vote
and we can discuss the discrete
or continuous quantities.
So here.
So here is the link.
I put it in the chat and then
please click on the link.
So whenever your ready just let
me know by your feedback that
you have. You could successfully
open the link.
And then I will start the pole.
So everybody
has the
link.
Cool.
So we have three entities here.
As you can see in the.
In the question, the number
of star temperature an electron.
So, uh, and in the in the bottom
of the page you can see the
online result from these
students. So let's wait for
other students to answer this
question. If you want to counts
or process the number of star,
is it a continuous or is it a
discrete one? Hint would be
that. Is it possible to have 1 and 1/2 stars? Or is it possible to
have one and 75% stars? It is not possible stars are, I mean
discrete entities. 1 2 3, so stars are discrete one. How about temperature?
Yes, actually it seems that
everybody actually answering
right. I mean most of the students are answering the right one. Yeah,
temperature. I mean in
essence, in the real world is
a continuous entity.
Uh, so we cannot have friends we
cannot. We can do that. We can
breakdown the temperature into
units 123 as we do for the
Celsius or Fahrenheit, but I
mean in essence it's continuous
entity. And electron
electron. As you may know
from physical from the high
school, we have 123
electrons. So it's a discrete
one.
So let's see the answer.
Oh, so I guess there's a problem with the poll. Yes, anyways, I
mean the number of stars is
discrete. Ah, the temperatures are continuous
one and also the number of
Electrons or electron is a
discrete entity. So let's
move on to the next question
in the poll.
How about wait
time and speed?
Yes, as we see
here, I mean everybody
else actually correct? I
mean, most of these
students actually answering
correct answer. Yes. I
mean wait time, speed.
These are all continuous
entities. Actually, anything
depending on the time and
distance, such as speed,
actually is continuous because
those entities are continuous.
So let's see the answer.
And as you see here, most of
this thing actually have the
correct answer. So for all those
other students you can put
questions if you have a question
regarding these, I mean
questions and I'll try to answer
them. So let's next move on to
the another question. How about
these sound image or pain?
All by me I actually have two
questions. Discreet kind of like
fixed data no no actually data
is a concept introduced when we
have a computer machines, but in
a real world. Imagine you don't
have any type of processing
machine in the real world.
Is that quantity continuous or
you have to break down in order
to analyze it? Imagine sound we
don't have, for instance, one
hit will be this. Is it possible
to have one sound to sound? Or?
I mean we have? I mean louder
sound an lower side. But in
order to analyze the magnitude
of sound we have to break it. So
sound inherently the continuous.
Another question by image image
I mean in the real world, I mean
whatever we see, for instance
human being when look at
something, it transformed
through the eye to the kind of
electronic pulse through your
neural networks. But it
translate the reflection off the
light from the objects in your
eye mean neural network. So it
based on this.
Definition is image is
a continuous or.
Discrete entity.
So let's see
the answer.
The answer is that all these
three entities are continuous.
For the image, I will explain
in the next few slides about
the pain. Again, we can discuss
about this, but pain is kind
of translation of neural poles
in your in your body. So
based on the I mean are
they? And at the type of the I
mean Neural Paul, I mean the
electronic polls in your neural
net, you could say that pain is
a discrete or continuous, but I
mean just wanted to give you
some idea that you have to
analyze whether the information
or the entity we are working
with is a continuous or discrete
an. If it is the I mean
continuous entity, we have to
break it into discrete units. So
at the. End of the day, any type
of information must be discreet.
When we are going to analyze it.
So let's move on to the next
step about the image. I will
explain it more in a few other
slides. So let's go to the next
one. How about the wave?
Yes, if you recall from physical
studies I mean from highschool
wave is a kind of continuous
entity. So for
instance genocidal wave or
courses. Sidell I Mean Wave.
So later we'll see that in order
to analyze waves by any, I mean
computer system, we have to
breakdown or sample waves.
So let's see the answer.
Oh
sorry.
Uh, let's stop that.
Wave. Fantasy answer yes, the
answer is the first one.
And next go to the light.
How about light? Light is one of
the entities that are.
Uh, have a huge controversy
between the scholars in physical studies.
So we are receiving some
answers.
This is the one of the most
challenging I mean entity or
concept in physics.
As we can see
I mean most of
these students are
assumed light as a
continuous entity.
And I mean from
the first perspective, yes,
light is a continuous
entity, but later by
quantum theory of physics.
Uh, they proved that light has
two behaviors. It has wavelike
behaviors, so the result is a
continuous entity and also it
has some behaviors very similar
to materials, discrete
materials, and it can be assumed
that it is formed by photons. So
based on those in this type of
behavior, lights are big.
It can be defined as in the
number of photons. So based on
this definition is the light is
a discrete entity. So and this
is the I mean.
Yeah, discovered. I mean
recently I mean in the last
century, so let's see the
results.
The answer is both. I mean light
is can be considered both
continuous or discrete that
discrete behavior of the light
is based on the photon like
behavior. But in this lecture
we're not going to discuss
these, I mean entities anymore.
We just want I just wanted to
know that to show you that any
type of entities in order to be
analyzed by any processing
machines, we have to 1st think
about, is it a continuous or
discrete, and if it is
continuous, we have to break
down the continuous entity into
discrete entities. So let's back
to the slides.
So here is the answer for
those who wants to browse
the slides later.
And regarding the image.
Image is not what we are right
now in our computer system. For
instance, we take with the
digital cameras and when we
store the images in our, I mean
hard drives or USB flash drives.
Image actually this is the most
first. Actually the world's
first photography or photograph.
Taken by Joseph necessary nips
his in famous inventor French
inventor, and he took this
picture by just allowing. The
light comes through the window
in his apartment to material. So
image, I mean in the nature is
a reflection of light on the
surface of materials.
You must, uh, no. We might have
some challenges regarding the
figuring out what is this
picture actually is showing. If
you pay more attention you can
see some. I mean buildings in
the right and left and the tree
in the background.
But in the Wikipedia there is a
re stored version of the image
and this is the image color
image. But this is not the
actual image. This is the
restored version of that and you
can easily see that there are
two buildings in the right and
left and there is a tree in the
background. So image in the real
world is a reflection of light,
so it's a continuous entity.
And for those who are interested
in selfies, this is the first
selfie, which is again, I mean,
the reflection of light in a
surface of a material.
And because of this we consider
image in the real world as this,
I mean continuous quantity or
entity. But in order to analyze
the image, you know that I mean
image processing is a heated
topic in computer science. So in
order to process images we have
to breakdown the image into
small discrete units, which we
call them pixels. So pixels are
the discrete sizing the image as
a continuous entity.
So let me see if there any
questions regarding the image.
Yes, actually Nicholas
asked that to me,
I mean.
A wavelength changes based on
the reflection of color.
Yes, actually, but this this
reflection actually is a
continuous reflection, so you
cannot in the in the in the
nature it is not just based on
the discrete units, it is, I
mean they continuous reflection.
Ah, of different wavelengths and
the different level wavelength
continuous. And in order to
analyze the wavelength, we
break down into discrete units.
But in the nature, the
wavelength is the kind of
distance of a period of a wave,
so the distance is a continuous
quantity.
So.
OK, let's back to the first
problem. The Bills basic
problem. Now we know that I mean
distance is a continuous
quantity and in order to analyze
the distance or measure the
distance we have to break down
into discrete units and we chose
Earth as the unit.
And we want to measure the
distance of moon to the sun
based on the number of Earth.
And we saw that it is 5 Earth
based on this picture is just an
illustrative images, not the I
mean true answer, but based on
the image we have to take five earths in order to pass in order
to reach the Sun from the Moon.
But now we want to represent the
distance this five earth in a
paper and then communicate the
number with other people. For
instance, I ask you how many
Earth we need to pass from moon
to Sun and you want to answer me. Fine, but you have to write it,
but you have to represent the
distance. So the next step after
making it continuous entity
discrete is the representation
of the this the discrete units.
So now I want to show what's the
distance. At first I start from
the moon, the distance from moon
to moon is nothing so zero. In
order to represent zero
distance, we can show nothing so
empty. Anti string or empty
letter. But when we are.
Going to the next established
just one earth so we can invent
assemble which is a symbol. Just
I means that we took one unit.
And then when we go to the
second Earth, we can say that
instead of just inventing in new
symbol, we can say that repeat
that symbol together. So we have two earths. So just put two I.
And then. The third Earth
3I. So and then next just
I mean go, I'm reaching the sun.
So in this representation.
Uh, whenever we wanted to
represent a unit, we just put a
symbol I. And if we need more
units, you just repeat that
symbol. So this is the next
step. The most basic step after
making a continuous quantity
discrete, we have to represent
it in order to show it to other
people. So we have to invent
some symbols in the whenever
it's a number, we said this is a
symbol or digit, so the next
step is representing the
quantity by some symbols or
digits and the whole process is
called quantization. So given
the continuous entity, we have
to break it into discrete units
and then we have to represent
these units by some symbols or
digits or numbers. And the whole
process is quantization, so any
type of information must go
through these pros this process
in order to be analyzed or
processed by a computer machine.
So let's and the system we use
just one symbol was actually
adopted by the people in ancient
Rome 8 century before Christ,
and this is called Roman norms.
It's always just one symbol, and
then by adding more units we
just repeat that symbol.
I just want to show you that how
the numbering system how
measuring the quantities
actually evolved evolved through
the history so we don't have any
sophisticated math formulation.
I mean available in those old
days. And this system, which
only has one symbol, is
called under system or base
one and base one means that
there is only one symbol to
represent the quantities.
Ah, based on this I have a
question for you.
If I mean in those old days they
believe in God or goddesses or
Oracle an the Oracle or the gods
actually tells them the hidden
secrets of the universe to the
people. So imagine you're living
in those old days. And an Oracle told you that the actual
distance of moon to the Earth is
about 150 million kilometers,
and the Earth's diameter is
about 13,000 kilometers.
So based on this information
given by an Oracle, how many
position? I need to represent
the distance based on the other
system based on only one symbol,
the eye symbol. How many times I
have to repeat the eye in order
to represent the most distance
to the sun.
So I put it in another poll. I
mean another question. So go to
the same URL.
You can see the.
Question. And,
uh.
Let's see your answers.
You're receiving some
answers.
It
says
that
I
mean.
My camera.
So the actual distance
of moon to the
sun is about 150
million kilometers. Start 150 million kilometers.
And in order to represent this
distance based on the number of
Earth as the unit, we have to divide it by the
diameter of the earth. So the
diameter of earth in the
equation is. The 10,000
kilometer so.
Based on this, it's a bad, it's
around. So just three and three
and divided 150,000 by 15 it's
about. 12,000
kilometers.
So.
Oh, most of this is actually
answered. The first one, which
is 150 million positions. But
The thing is, the unit we chose
is the Earth, so we have to
represent the distance based on
the number of Earth, not the
kilometers. So the earth
diameter is about 13,000. So we
have to do this division.
Yes, actually Ishmamur or actually put the exact number
which is about the exact
number is 11.
This is the exact number of
position we need, but roughly
about 12,000. So let's
see the correct answer.
The correct answer, as you can
see here 12,000 positions.
Ah, let's go to the next
question. So now I wanted
to represent this distance in a
paper and then send it to other
people. So if a
papers. For a letter size
paper. So let me.
Back to the.
OK.
So the next question is this. If
we have a four or letter size
paper and roughly 84 paper can
have 3000 position, how many
pages we need in order to?
Represent this distance.
So the number of positions
we need is about 12,000,
and if it's paper had
about 3000 positions, so 12,000
/ 3000 becomes.
Let's see the answer.
4 yes.
So the correct answer is 4.
So in order to represent this
test and just one number one
distance from moon to the sun,
we need 4 pages in order to show
the distance. So let's
back to this slide.
Yes, this is the correct
answer. 4 pages.
So as you can see, this is not
an efficient. I mean system. In
order to represent the.
Information, so let's back to.
But The thing is, in old days
they don't have to represent
very big numbers because they
don't have any facilities to
travel so far. So the unary system was enough for them just
to represent very small numbers.
But if they wanted to represent
large numbers or bigger numbers,
they need more space, such as
here. I mean 4 pages.
So is it any? Is it
possible to improve this system
in order to I mean?
Have less space in order to
represent this distance. 4 pages
is a huge amount of space.
And this is the birth or
this is the motivation behind
number systems? So number system
actually existed in order to
propose some efficient way to
represent the numbers or big
numbers. So I can wait for
questions. If you have any
question I can answer right now
and then we can start the next
topic. Oh, I
have a question
from koto and
she asked.
A bad moon distance. Why did
it suddenly change to a four
pages? No no. I'm saying it's
back to the slide.
I'm saying that the moon
distance to the.
Sun is about 12,000 based on the
unit of Earth. So imagine in the
unary system we have only one symbol and then if you want to
write this distance so we have
to let me share my screen first.
I can show you in the board.
So. We
have we need, uh, this amount of
position in order to write the
distance. So let me just.
Take this as the roughly number
of position we need. This is
number of Earth.
In order to represent the
distance, but in under a system
you only have one symbol, so we
only have I. So when we want to
represent the second unit, we
have to repeat that the 3rd,
next and then 4th and then etc.
So in order to represent 12,000
Earth, you have to repeat I
12,000 times. So if they are
given a four papers or letter
size paper just in normal paper
in order to write that.
Just as we have to start writing
111 and then it finishes here.
But in the air for pages we have
we can have only about.
3000 characters, so we need
another paper to continue
writing the number so another
3000 an, etc. So we need 4
pages in order to write the
distance of moon to the sun.
Ah.
Did I actually answered your question, Koto?
Cool. The next question
is.
Oh, actually Abdulwahhab said how does this help us with the
computer system will see will
see one of the most fundamental
of the computer system is
representing numbers. So imagine
we are building a computer system based on the unary
system. So in order to process
the numbers we need huge amount
of memory space just to analyze
this number. 4 pages to
analyze just this number. So
it means that if you are going
to build a computer system to
analyze the numbers under the
system is not a sufficient
system. So we need an
improvement to the number
system.
Yes, most of us says one unary number represents one earth.
Yes, so and then in order to
represent two earth, you have to
repeat it. Put two I.
So let's. Yes, actually in
the in the continuing this
slide. Actually I'll
introduce an efficient
numbering system, so let's
continue.
And let's improve this system.
But you have an idea that how
human individuals evolve to the
current official number system.
So this is the way actually.
Number system involved with his
within the history. As I said,
it starts about 8 century before
Christ by the under the system.
As you can see here there were
only one symbol and then
gradually the people was able to
go farther and farther and they
need to represent big numbers,
so they have to create new
symbols. So as you can see they
create these symbols and then
interesting thing is that at
first they were no symbol for
though. Because they thought
that there is no need to
represent zero distance, but
later they figured out it is a
necessary thing that represents
0. So they introduced the symbol
for zero distance and then it
breaks down to the two
categories. Western Arabic and
eastern Arabic and at the end I
mean you can see the current
number, decimal system or
numbering system we are using in
the school. So it took about
16 + 8 about 24 centuries.
To build the decimal number
system that we are using right
now. So that's a huge amount of
time, so you should in building
your computer system. You
shouldn't actually assume that
the numbering system is already
existed, so let's build a
computer system. You have to
know the history in order to
build a better computer system.
So let's move on to the next.
Ah, numbering system.
Actually, last week I wanted to improve the unary system, so I
called this system Hossein's number system, which has three
more symbols or digits, zero to
represent zero distance, one as
the same as unary system, and then 2 three. So we have only
four digits or symbols, and
let's see how can we improve
the unary system.
This on this system.
I say that when there is no
distance or when there's no unit
0 unit, I put 0 so moon to moon
is 0. And then.
One Earth. Two Earth.
Three Earth so, I'm using these symbols in my system numbering
system, but when I go to the
next unit I cannot use 4 because
my system doesn't have the digit
44, so I'm not allowed to use
this symbol, so I have to come
up with a work around to
represent four based on the
available digits 0123.
And also the next one, the 5th
actually earth. So I have to
come up with the available digit
to represent 5. So this is the
way I did I invented just last
week. I said that.
Let's move on to the.
Chat yes. I said that let's start with the 00 and in
the blue column actually shows
the actual value in the decimal
system in the current modern
numbering system. So 0123 the
same as decimal system and when
I when I run out of the symbols.
I introduce a new position to
the left and then I keep what
I've done so far in that position. So I'm at 3, so
let's keep 3 by introducing a new position and then add 0. So
in my system, 3 0 is interpreted as four, and then I
continue counting. So then the next number is 3 1, which is
equal to 5. 3 2 is equal to 6.
3 3 is equal to 7, so it means that I've done so far. 2 *
3 and introduce a new position.
So now the next step is for, but
we don't have the digit 44. So
again as we did for here in this
place. So we introduce a new
position to the left and then we
keep what I've done so far. And
then we add 0. So in my
numbering system. The eight is
equal to 330.
So let's, uh, can we can do?
We can introduce the new
position into the sort of just
to the left. We can introduce
introduce new position to the
right so it becomes another
number system. For instance,
here for the four, instead of
introducing new position left,
introducing position to the
right. So we keep three in the
right and then add 0, so 03
becomes four, and then we
continue counting 1 three
because 523 becomes 6, so we
keep track of what we've done
so far in the right side of
the numbers.
And when we are at 3 three, we
introduce new position and then
we keep it up so far to the
right and then add 0.
But let's This is another number
system so, but let's continue
with the previous one. Whenever
we have done with the digits and
we don't have anymore digits for
the four or five, we introduce
new position and we keep
whatever what we've done so far.
So for instance, the next after
8 is 9, so 331 is equal to 9 and
then 332 is 10.
And then 333 is 11. Now the next
step we don't have anymore
digits for after 3. So we introduce new position to the
left and then add 0. So the next
unit gonna be 3330. So this is
the number equal to 12. But this
number if you want to show 12 in
Hossein's number system we have to represent like this 3330.
And then we can continue to
15 an for the 16 again new
position. Keep what we've
done so far, and then zero.
So this is the 16 number in Hossein's number system.
So in order to make sure that
you understand my system and
just to show you that you are
able to propose your own number
system and it is not limited to
just existed number system, you
can have your own number system
and build a computer system
working with your model system.
I put some questions.
Uh.
In the poll, that's back to the poll.
So please go to the same link.
And.
Uh, see this. This is this is
the question everybody I hope
can see the question you
question. So imagine we have
this number in the system. Let's
zoom in a little bit.
So we have this number in Hossein's system.
Uh, what's the equal
number in decimal?
So
let's
see
the
answer.
The answer is this, that
number this number is not
a valid number in system.
Why the reason is?
In my system, the way I can't
the units you have to introduce
a new position when we are drawn
out of the digits, so you don't
have zero in between. So here as
you can see we are done with the
three and then we introduce new
position. But we are not putting
123. So in Hossein's numbering system, all the positions in the
left side must occupied with the
digit three in order to add new
position. So this is not the
correct actually number in
his senses, and so the
answer is not valid.
So let's move on to
the next question.
How about this?
This is a number in Hossein's number system and we want to
know what's the actual value. Is
it valid festival an if it is
valid, what's the equal number
in decimal system?
So let's
figure out
the answer.
So the
number is.
See.
We want so this number means
that we already.
Past one run over the digits so
we were ready. Count from 1 to
0123 so we already did 3 units,
including the 000 unit, nothing
123. We keep that here and then
we introduce a new position and
then we did another three and
then we introduce a new
position, another three, and then there's another three. So
whenever we introduce a new
position, we actually take
another step. So 3 units.
Plus one introducing a new
position, another 3 + 1
Inquisition, another 31 new
position, and. So 124 new
positions out, sorry.
Three step, one new position
Fiesta One new position. Three
step one new position for E3 and
then for this 3 three position
one U three step one new
position. And then we can't one.
So basically this is for
three step one position,
three step. So as you
can see we can just some
all these together.
So it's account.
4 * 3 plus.
The last one on how the new
position we introduce one 2,
three 4 + 4.
So.
Let me show you the
correct answer.
Most of you actually did
correct answer 17, so let's
back to the light.
And put it in a math
formulation. So let's start from
this zero. So farm 0123 is
exactly the same as, uh, let me
share my screen.
So from
0123. This is the
exact equal number in the
decimal system, so we don't have
any new position, so it means
that for the we don't have new
positions, so there is no unit
taken by the new position. So 1
- 1 is 0, so there is no step
by new position, only the
number. And then when we are
here, we introduce a new
position and then we add 0. So
we already take three steps.
And then we talk zero step next.
But we introduced new positions.
So one unit, so 2 - 1 becomes
four altogether, some together.
And then we continue here, for
instance, here we have three
step before three step another
step, and then we introduce a
new position. So becomes one
position, one is equal to 2 - 1.
So in order to come up with a
math formula, we could say that.
Whatever we've done so far, hold
some together plus number of
position minus one.
As you can see, for the 16,
whatever we have done so far,
plus the number of position
minus one, which is the number
of new positions.
So here are more samples. Are
you did? This is not a valid
number in the Hossein system because we have zero in between.
As we saw in Hossein system, you have to complete to
three in order to introduce
new positions.
And this is another example. As
you can see here in the pole
position. So we took 4 * 3
digits plus one step and we
introduce 4 new positions, so
four is equal to 5 - 1.
Here are other samples
at home. You can browse
the sample and see the
answer, but the
interesting answer
sample is here.
We have 10 positions.
And all up to the maximum digit
3. So how can we calculate
this? So we can say that we
can sum all this together and
then we have 9 new positions.
So at the end we had 10 * 3 +
9, so becomes 39.
Ah. So before
going to the next slide, let's
see, the questions are.
Uh Sean you can unmute, I mean, uh.
to let Koto ask her question or his question. They clicked the
button on accident.
Oh OK, cool.
So let's continue so.
Now imagine in general we have N
positions. What is the minimum
number in Hossein System and
what is the maximum number? So
the minimum number is the 0 so
we can just Simply put the
digits zero in all positions. So
the minimum is trivial 0. How
about the maximum the maximum
number in hosting system is
equal to this number in all
positions we put the digit 3.
So 3333 up until the
first position. So let's count all these three and see what is
the equal Max number?
By simply math, I mean we can
just do this. I mean I get all
these steps we've done so far,
plus the number of new
positions. So we have an
position N minus one is than you
so plus N minus one.
So it becomes.
3 N plus N minus one at the
end we have four times N minus
one. So as an example, if we
are given 10 position as we did
calculation, it is equal to four
times and which is equal to 10 -
1. So 40 - 1 is 39. So in
Hossein system. With ten
position it is possible to
represent numbers from 012 up
until 39, but you cannot
represent 40 in Hossein's system when you are given only 10
positions. You need another new
position, but you are limited to
10. So this way you know,
uh, when you're building
a system to analyze the
numbers, the numbering
system is very important.
So as you can see in
hosting system there is a
very little range of
numbers can be analyzed.
How about the reverse? If you
are given a number and you
wanted to know how many space
you need in order to represent
that number in Hossein system.
Uh how would we calculate the
number of position.
The answers that you just simply
take that given number as the
maximum number and then put it
in that formula. So imagine the
maximum number we are going to
represent is N Capital N. So
capital N is the maximum is
equal to four times N minus one.
An SM N is the number of
positions. So by doing a little
bit math you can see that the
number of position is equal to N
plus 1 / 4.
So let's back to our
first question.
Ah, now we wanted to represent
the most distance to sun, but
this time in Hossein System, not in the unary system. And see whether
the Hossein System is a better system or not.
So I put this as a question
here. In So
please go to the same URL and
let's see your answers.
So again, imagine you are given
the distance. The actual
distance is about 150 million
kilometers. Earth diameter is
13,000. An each page can contain
about 3000 characters.
We already know that this on the
earth diameter, the distance is
about 12,000 Earth or units of Earth. So in unary system we
need to have thousand positions.
But here how can we represent
12,000 in Hossein system?
So let me share my screen.
My camera. So
we already
knew that
the maximum
number. Is equal to four
times and minus one. And then if
we are given the ends.
With the number of position so
the end is equal to N plus
1 / 4.
But what is an in this question?
Ann is the as we did we we
know that the distance of
Earth Moon to the Earth is
about 12,000 earth.
So this time Wanna represent this number in Hossein's system? So
in Hossein system we assume that this is the end.
So it becomes 12,000. This is
the maximum number plus 1 / 4
which is equal to 3000.
And we have
to now. We need
3000 position in order to
represent this number 12,000 in
Hossein system. But as you said,
if we have a paper that can
roughly put about 3000
character, so we have to need.
We need one page in order to
represent 12,000 anet hoses
system. The maximum number gonna
be the digit three so 3333.
Loud this case by three, and
this is the number equal number,
just one page to represent 12,000 in Hossein's system.
So let's see the answer.
Ah. Actually, more
than half of this signal
actually had the correct answer.
If you have questions, just put
it in the chat and I can
describe it more when we have
the time for Q&A.
So. As you
can see here, we end up with the
better system. Instead of
spending 4 pages putting the one
symbol because we have three
more symbols. I mean 0123, we
are. We can store the number
12,000 number in just one pages.
So we end up because of that
number, I mean four times an, so
we have four symbols, so we can
save space by the factor of 4.
So this is a huge improvement to
the another system, but they
still spending one page to show
the let me.
Share my screen.
So here is the, uh, I
mean the illustration, but it
still spending one page 2.
Sure, this I mean number is a
huge, I mean a waste of memory
because in decimal system we only used 5 characters, 12000. But
in Hossein's system we are spending one page about 3000 digits of
the digit three. So let's move
on to the next slide in order to
improve Hossein's system.
For the Hossein system.
Uh, the thing was that when we.
Or run out of the digits. We
have introduced the new position
and keep track of what we've
done so far. So here we keep
track of 3. But we could say that we did one round overall the
four symbols. So instead of
just keeping what we've done
so far, the three we can keep
the number of rounds.
For instance, here, when we reach to the 3 3 with it 2
rounds over all the digits. So
instead of just keeping the
actual units, we can keep track
of the number of rounds over
these symbols. That's a smarter
and we can reuse the existing
digits one and two.
And we can continue this way
here, for instance, to represent
12. We can say that instead of
just saying we did 333, we can
say that we did three runs
overall digit, so four symbols
and just store the number 3
instead of just 3 * 3.
And we can continue the same to
this 16 for the 16 we can say
that we did four times overall
digits. So let's keep. I mean,
the number of rounds.
So this ends up with this
system. So we start with
zero. 123
And when we are going to the
next unit, we introduce new
position to the left.
But this time, instead of just
keeping the three, we keep the
number of rounds so they want.
And remember, this one is kind
of is very different from the
first one. Because, uh, we. This
one means the number of rounds
which is 4.
I mean rounds over the four
digits, but the first one in the
first position is only one unit.
So we interpret this one
in the new position as,
which having as a signal
more significant number.
We continue now to the next
count, so the one is 1 round, so
again 101112 and then in this
position we did another round.
So we just increment 1 three and
then you just increment the one
to two. So we did two rounds
instead of just keeping the
three. We said that we increment
the one to two.
So, but these two is more
significant than the two
in the first position.
So this way instead of just
keeping the fee, we keep track
of the rounds of we we did over
the digits. And then we can
continue this way.
So my question is this, when we
end up with the three 3 means
that we did three rounds over
all the digits plus 3 units and
the next step is also in this
step with it 4 rounds, so we
have to represent four rounds,
but we don't have the digit 44.
So the solution is again we do
the same as we did in the first
position. So imagine we don't
have the first unit first
position, so we did one round
over the digit, but this time in
the second position. So we
introduce a new position one,
and then in put a zero in the
all other positions.
So this means that we did one
round overall digits, but in the
second significant position.
And this one has a synchronous
to the power 4 to the power of
2 becausw. It includes eight
rounds over the digits.
And this is the system that
called Quaternary system, which
only has bass, four symbols
0123. An instead of keeping the
track of what they've done so far as in the Hossein system. It
keeps track of of the rounds of
the runs over the digits.
And it is originated by the
Hindu Arabic culture in the
7th century.
So here is the recap. So for the
when we have one position, the
significant of that position is
equal to 1, so there is no round
or zero round 4 to the power of
0 and 0123 is equal to the exact
number in the decimal system.
But when we go to the when we
introduce a new position, that
position actually keeps track of the rounds over the symbols. So
it has a significance of four to the power of 1. So it means
that we did one run over 4
symbols. And as you can see
here, 10 means that one round
over 4 digits plus zero round,
and this is the.
The significance of the first
position, which is one is equal
to 4. 1 one is that one round
over the four digits plus one
step, so 5.
And when we are going to the 20,
it means that two rounds over
all the digits or symbols plus zero step. So, 2 0 in base 4 system
is equal to 8 and the difference
is that here the positions the
new positions has significance.
Based on the powers of four.
The next is for instance 2 1 is 2 step by the
significance of 4 + 1 is that?
2 two minutes 10 and we can
continue up until 100100 means
that we did four rounds.
Over the four digits or one
round over 4 to the power of
2 + 0.
Significant, I mean 4 to the
power of 1 + 0 forty power of 0.
So this 100 means 16 in the
base 4 system.
So and we can continue for
bigger number, we produce new
position but but the
significance based on the power
of four. So the next position
had the significance of four to
the power of 3. Next would be
full power for an etc.
So based on the disk space 4
number system, let's see the
exact numbers are how can we
interpret the exact numbers in
base four when we are converting
to the decimal system?
So for instance, this number if
you are given this number in the
base for system, the equal is
this equal value in decimal you
have to 1st determine the
significance of the positions.
You start with the power four
from the first position.
For the power of 012 up until
the last position 7. So if you
have eight position, the last is
4 to the power of 7.
027 becomes 8 positions and then
we have to multiply the digits
to the significance of that
position. For instance, one to
the multiplied by 4 to the power
of 0 three multiplied by the.
It's the significant of the
position 4 to the power of 1.
And then. We do some over all
these steps we've taken.
So 30302131 in base
four is equal to
65 thousand 44137 in
the decimal system.
Ah, for the next number we have
to do the same. So if you do
the same, we have this equal
#1021 in decimal number.
So let me.
And these are other samples and
let me just.
Put another question in the poll, so please go to the poll.
And I answered this question.
In order to find the equal value
of each number in a number
system to a decimal system, the
first thing is that you have to
check whether the digits are
valid or no. And then when
you checked, it is a valid
number in that system. Then
you start converting to the
decimal system.
Because this number is the
greatest base for or radix for
all the digits are allowed to be
0123. But here, as you can see
in this, uh, in this position.
You can see the figure file, so
5 is not a valid digit when we
are using the base for system.
So you have to say that this
number is not a valid number.
So let's have the see
the correct answer.
NOTE: THE CORRECT ANSWER IS ACTUALLY "NOT VALID" AS SHOWN FROM THE MAJORITY OF VOTES. THE "4,094" ANSWER IS WRONG.
Again, because, uh, in the base
4 system we have only the
symbols are 0123, so you cannot
use a symbol more than those, so
5 is not a valid symbol in Radix
4, so it's not a valid number.
So let's move on to the next
question. How about this again?
First check whether the
number is a valid number
and then convert it to the
decimal number.
So let's share my blackboard.
And see.
What's
the
solution? So
the number here is 3333.
How many feet? We have 5 feet.
And two. So the first
step is we have to find the
significance of the position. So
it's not because this number is
in the base 4, something system,
so the significance of the
position is based on the powers
of four. So this significance is
, let me put another color.
4 to the power of 0, four to the
power of 1.
4 to the power of 2.
4 to the power of 3.
4 to the power of 4.
And then. 4 to the power of 5
so first you have to determine
the significance of the
positions because the number is
in the base 4 system, so the
significance is based on the
powers of four, so from zero to
5 minutes, six positions.
Then you have to multiply each
digit to the significant
position, so 2.
Multiply by 4.
To the power of 0 plus.
3 * 4 to the power of 1
this one.
All our supply and
then. 3 * 4 to
five of two up until
3. Go to the power of 5.
So. So if you
I can. Interesting thing is that
the Google can answer this for
you. So you could say that
2 multiply by 4 to the
power of 0.
Let me let me share my
screen again.
So if you can see here.
In Google you can say that let's
calculate this number for Me 2 *
4 to the power of 0 + 3
* 4 to the power of 1 three
multiplied by power of 2.
Bye bye 4 to the power of 7
five so let's see the answer
by the Google.
It is 409, four 4094, so the
correct answer is the first one.
So let's.
And hopefully, most of the students actually
answered the correct one.
So.
So. Let's go back to the slides and.
These are other.
Samples you can at home. You
can practice this and you can
convert these numbers to the
decimal system by assuming
that these numbers are in the
base four, so the significance
of a position are based on the
power of four.
And when we are comparing these two systems, Hossein System an
based for system.
You can easily see that the Hossein system is very I mean bad. I
mean comparing to the base 4.
First of all, in the first
number. This number is not a
valid number in Hossein system,
but it is a valid number in base
four. It means that the base for
can employ all the possible. I
mean uh, numbers in the given
positions in the given space.
So although this is a not valid
number, but in the if this is a
valid number is 4 and equal to
65,000 something? Another
interesting thing is that when
we are given 10 position.
We can represent a number around
1,000,000 in base four, but in
Hossein's system is just about 39. So you can see that the base for
system. Given the same number of
position or a space is able to
represent much more bigger
numbers. So the base for system
is evidently that better number
system. And that's the way
actually improve the numbering
system to come up with an
efficient. I mean number system.
So if I wanted to build a
computer system. I would build
that computer system to work
with base 4, not based on the Hossein number system, because
the base four number system is
able to represent much more
range of numbers.
So. We are done for today
and I hope you.
Uh, get the idea of numbering
system and how different
numbering system has different
efficiencies and next week we're
going to continue with other
numbering system that are much
more better than the base 4.
And now I'm ready for your.
Questions, so let's
go to the last slide.
And. Wait for your
questions so I'm available
for your questions.
So Sean
you can.
Ask the question based on 1st
first ask for service.
Oh yeah, um the first question
is. So it's a more efficient
numbering system in relation to
computer systems. This would is
this how file compression hold
on. Let me read that again in
relation to computer systems.
This would utilize the less
memory. Is this how file
compression is performed? Oh, compressioning is a little bit.
It's a little bit different
concept because here as you see
we didn't do. We didn't do
any. Compression compression
needs another algorithm to
compliment to represent the
information with less space, but
the idea is the same. In order
to represent information with
less space. What we've done so
far was not compression, but the
same idea. I mean, introducing
new way to represent the data.
All another for instance, in the
computer in the compression
method we could for instance,
it's not just repeating for
three, we can just put the
numbers at the number of the
repeat repetition, so 4.
I would say.
The same principle, bought
different algorithms, so the
answer is yes and No.
But the idea is that I mean
less space to represent
wider range of numbers or
huge amount of information.
I hope I answered a
question so next question.
When will we have the weekly
assignments and is there no lab
today? Oh, the labs actually
start next week. So I mean at
the end of this week I'm
releasing I will release the lab
manual for the next week.
It's already on the blackboard,
but the official is sort of. The
lab is next week and for the
assignment, weekly assignments
or lecture assignment. I wanted
to synchronize it with the labs,
so I will release the lab
assignment next week too.
So lab assignments and weekly
assignments are synchronized
with each other released. I
mean end of this week and
starts next week.
Ann
The next question is, will this
stuff beyond the mid term.
For sure, actually, not
Hussein's numbering system, but
later will see different
numbering system that are
officially released an all the
other. I mean. So I mean people
right now is using, so the base
for an other bases for the
numbering system will be in the
mid term exam. Also in the mid
term exam you would be proposed
with questions such as I mean.
Propose your own numbering
system and explain what's the
efficiency or what's the
inefficiency of that so.
You might have questions about
how can we improve. Uh, for
instance, random numbering
system, and I explained the
random that number system in the
question and you will as we did
for the hossains numbering
system, you have to analyze that
number system and tell that
what's the efficiency or what's
the I mean problem with the
number system in the question.
So basically the question you
might see some number of weird.
Numbering system that you
have to analyze the numbering
system and say why this is a
correct choice for the number
system or not. Why is not a
correct choice?
So I hope I answered
your question.
I think this is the last one, so
for computers would that mean
binary is the most efficient
number system? Oh, it's still.
We haven't introduced binary
system, but as you may guess,
binary system. Instead of having
four symbols, it has two
symbols, zero and one, so we'll
see that comparing the binary
system and quaternary system. I
mean the base for system will
see that the base for system is
much more efficient than the
binary system. But there are
some reason that we build
computer system based on the
binary system, not.
Uh, the quaternary systems and
in next slide you see that
although the base for system is
better choice than the base two
or binary, but computer system
is built based on the base two
and you'll see the reason.
Next next week.
But that's a good question.
OK, I think this is the last
question for sure. Is there a
reason why you're going from
right to left for the positions?
No, no, as I said, I mean there
is no reason from uh in the in
the system I said that instead
of introducing new position to
the left, you can introduce new
position to the right so it
based on the I mean convention
that numbering system as it set
so you can have your own number
system. For instance, based on
five digits, 3 digits, any
number of digits, and you
introduce your own digits.
And then you have to tell how
can you interpret or how can you
count the units so you can
introduce position to the right
and then you have your own
symbols. For instance, you could
have six symbols and your
symbols is not necessary to be
01. You can have your own
symbols, but the interpretation
interpretation is important. You
could say that my symbol is
equal to 0 in decimal system.
This symbol is equal to 1.
And then I will introduce
position to the right and then
this is the formulation. In
order to map my number system
to the decimal number system.
So there is no limit to that.
So you can have your own way
to represent the data, but you
have to tell how we can
convert your number to the
other numbering systems.
So. I hope I answered your
question, Nathan and.
Thank you everyone
for your attendance.
Hopefully will continue next
week on Monday and.
Thank you so much. Have a
good day, bye.